In this lecture, we will help WordPress understand the update in our block.
As we learned, WordPress cannot extract the content attribute from the block saved in the database.
It's not WordPress fault.
We've updated our template which causes confusion in the resource section of this lecture.
I provide a link to a feature called BLOCK DEPRECATION.
WordPress has two recommendations for handling deprecated blocks.
The first solution is to create another block rather than updating an old block.
You can create a new block with the latest features.
Alternatively, we can update the current block to have a copy of the original template.
This step is more complicated but can be easier for users to upgrade to newer versions of a block.
Let's give it a try.
Head on over to the editor.
Storing the original copy of a block can occupy lots of code.
To reduce clutter, let's create a new file for storing the older version of our block.
Create a file called V one JS.
It's common practice to define older versions of a block with numbers.
The original block can be considered version one.
Our latest copy of The BLOCK can be considered version two.
Inside this file, import an empty object in the default namespace.
Next, we need to start configuring the block.
The object can contain the same configuration details as the block JSON file.
However, we do not need to override every value.
There are only three properties required for deprecated blocks.
Firstly, we must provide a list of supported features.
Our block does not change features regardless.
WordPress requires this information at the top of the file.
Import the block file.
It will be easier to use our block file to add a list of supported features in the object and the supports
option.
And the block data supports property with the spread operator.
Next we must add the attributes property.
Once again, we will spread the block data attributes property into the object.
The attributes from the latest version of the lock are not the same as the original version.
The content attribute has a different selector.
Lets override this attribute by adding it to the object.
Set the type property to string.
Afterward set the source property to HML.
Lastly, set the selector property to the following alert box content.
P.
As mentioned before, the values for this configuration object must contain the original values before
the block was updated in the previous version of this block.
Our content was stored in the paragraph tag.
Therefore, our selector should reflect the older version of the block.
Next, let's add the save function.
This is the most crucial step.
The save function must produce the same template saved in the database.
If it does, WordPress will pass the block validation because it was able to extract the values for
the blocks attributes.
Open these saved js file.
Copy.
They say function.
Pasted into the object from the v one file.
The save function won't be completely functional without the components and functions from the original
block.
Let's head back to the save file to grab the import statements, copy the import statements from the
block editor and components packages.
Paste them into the deprecated file.
We're almost finished.
There's one modification that should be made to the save function in the v one file in the template
search for the rich text content component.
Change the tag name property to P.
The configuration is ready.
Our final step is to register this deprecation with the block.
Open the index JS file.
At the top of the file.
Import the v one file.
Next scroll to the bottom of the block registration object at an array called deprecation.
Inside this array, we can provide a list of configuration objects.
Let's add the v one object.
During the validation process, WordPress will resort to the deprecation option for validating the block.
This assumes that the validation failed with the initial save function of the block.
It will go through every save function until the configuration produces a match to the template from
the database.
Let's refresh the page in the browser.
This time, the blocks are not producing the same error.
WordPress was able to run the save function from the first version of the block.
The blocks template matched the template from the database.
It was able to grab the attributes values.
As you can see, the content appears in the block.
We've successfully upgraded our block to a newer version.
If a user has an older version of our block, they will not have to worry about upgrading our plugin.
The plugin is capable of handling smooth upgrades.
There are pages will not break.